Hello friends, I'm Rick Warren, and welcome to Spurgeon's Sermons.
This is the official podcast brought to you by Premier and Spurgeon's College.
You know the teachings of Charles Spurgeon have had a personal impact on my life in a profound way, and I'm confident they'll do the same for you.
So get ready to be challenged, equipped, and guided by Charles Spurgeon, who is universally regarded as the greatest English preacher in the history of the church.
The heroic in Christianity, a sermon by Charles Spurgeon, part five.
For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye?
For sinners also love those that love them.
And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye?
For sinners also do even the same.
And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive,
What thank have ye?
For sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
Luke's Gospel, chapter 6, verses 32 to 34.
The next verse of this 17th chapter shows us that Christians are to be people of service.
They are not to think that they came into the world to sit at a banquet, but they are to wait on their master while he sits at the table.
Too many appear to consider that the services of the sanctuary are intended merely to feed them.
They never look upon the house of God as a barracks for soldiers, or a place where workmen come together to sharpen their tools.
They only regard it as a sacred restaurant, a spiritual larder, or a heavenly refectory, where much is to be received and little or nothing returned.
O brothers and sisters,
We must get out of the cramping influence of the spirit which makes even religion a selfish provision for ourselves.
And we must scorn that skulking away from the trouble and fatigue which creeps over men of growing years and increasing wealth.
We are to serve, not to recline at our ease.
What are we that are so anxious to rest ourselves and benefit ourselves?
The Lord Jesus Christ would not have us always be asking, how can I be happy?
How can I obtain spiritual enjoyment?
Servants are not supposed to spend their time in doing their own pleasure and seeking their own profit.
A man's servant whose whole time was taken up with watching his own health would be of small value to his employer.
Even so we have something else to do
beyond watching over our own inward feelings.
To snatch a brand from the burning is better than to warm your own hands.
To feed a hungry soul with the bread of heaven is a far higher deed than to eat the fat and drink the sweet yourself.
There is more joy in plunging your arm up to the elbow in the mire to find a jewel for Christ.
than in washing one's own idle hands with the scented soap of respectable propriety.
Oh, to get clean away from all idea of self-seeking in religion.
We are first of all saved by grace, like drowning mariners snatched from the deep, but afterwards we are taught to man the lifeboat ourselves for the rescue of others from destruction.
Christianity finds me a soldier wounded in battle and it heals my wounds.
But it does far more than that.
It girds me with armor, it gives me a sword, it teaches me to fight, and it makes a hero of me if I yield myself to its full power.
God grant it may do this for every one of us.
I will now close with the reflection that the Christian religion
Supplies due nourishment for the most heroic life.
Bear with me while I show you this in a few sentences.
First, the economy of grace requires it.
You and I must have been chosen to lead a life higher than that of ordinary men, or else why all this noise and stir at all?
We see heaven and earth and hell in motion
God vacates his throne and becomes a man.
Immortality puts on flesh and blood and dies.
The Holy Spirit comes to dwell in these bodies of clay, while angels look on and wonder.
Surely here is the groundwork and argument of something supremely good.
See you that angel bright and sparkling like a flame of fire.
What trouble did it cost the Creator to make Him?
A thought sufficed to do it.
God willed it, and there stood the helmed cherubim and sordid seraphim before Him in all their glittering ranks.
What will that creature be, which has been the subject of eternal purposes?
Which has cost the Father the heart-paying of giving up His only Son?
cost the sun a bloody sweat cost the spirit the exercise of his omnipotence such a creature you and I shall yet become we are on the road to it great things ought to come of us if that is what we are and are growing to may this thought nourish us to the highest life think again brethren we are helped
to holy heroism by the reward which it brings.
For our blessed master, though he bids us spurn the thought of reward on earth, yet tells us that there is a reward in the thing itself.
Just follow my text in the 35th verse.
Love ye your enemies and do good and lend, hoping for nothing again, and your reward shall be great.
What reward?
why the reward of having done good.
This is quite enough.
If you go to your brother who has treated you so badly and say, brother, we are going to be friends and you manage to heal all wounds, you will not want any other reward.
You will sleep sweetly at night and the music that awakes you in the morning will be sweet as the bells of heaven.
Suppose you have an enemy.
and persistently do him all the good you can.
You will not wish to be paid for it.
It is such a grand thing to have acted like a Christian that you will be blessed in the deed.
I believe that martyrs at the stake, when they stood and burned for Christ, felt in every pang a thousand times rewarded by possessing the grace which enabled them to endure to the end.
they felt, we are doing the right thing, we are testifying to the truth of our beloved Lord.
And if they had possessed a thousand lives, they would cheerfully have laid down all for Jesus.
Therefore do not miss a mercenary as to expect to be paid in dirty bronze and tarnished silver, but ask to find your recompense
in the Spirit by which you are led to do good, and in the smile of your heavenly Father.
Then mark you this to fire your ambition.
You shall be children of the highest.
Those who can rise into the heroic life shall be as God.
The gentle, patient, peaceable, kind, loving, forgiving, affectionate,
These shall be known to be the sons and daughters of God.
And is this nothing?
Oh, if there is a grain of nobility in your natures, you will make this the highest ambition of your lives to be like God.
What is more than that?
We are expected to be like God because we are His children.
He shall be the children of the highest, for He is kind unto the unthankful.
and to the evil.
We expect to see something of the Father in the child.
If we are children of God, we ought to do what others never think of.
If you are the children of God, remember what a brother you have, and what an example he has set you.
He disdained to live unto himself, for he left the throne of glory,
to come down to Bethlehem's manger, to a carpenter's shop, to a servant's life.
The other night, I heard read at family prayer the story of our Lord at the supper table.
Jesus knowing that he came from God and went to God, took a towel and girded himself and began to wash his disciples' feet.
Ah, when I thought of him,
whom all heaven worships, our blessed, blessed master, actually coming round with a basin to wash the disciples' feet.
I felt my eyes fill with tears, and I sympathized with Peter when he cried, Does thou wash my feet?
It seemed a stoop too great for our Lord and King, thus to act a menial part.
Is there anything
which can seem too mean for you and me, after beholding such condescension.
If that sight touch you not, let me remind you of a further scene.
He went into Gethsemane, and there he knelt and prayed for you and me, until he was covered with a gory sweat.
And great drops of blood followed each other to the ground.
Is there any pain that we would not face?
Is there any reproach we could not bear after this for his dear sake?
Does not that rouse you?
Will you after this be proud and claim honor of your brethren and grow angry if it be refused?
Come with me once again for he goes to the cross and there he hangs.
It is your Lord, remember.
See the iron passes through his hand.
It is your Lord who is thus maimed.
The nails tear through his feet, the feet of your Lord.
He wears a crown as monarch, but it is a coronet of thorns.
It is your Lord who is thus crowned.
He wears crimson too, but it is his own blood, and he is your own Lord.
He has not a rag else, for they have stripped him
Yes, stripped and scourged your Lord.
And they are hissing at him, jesting at his prayers and scoffing at his cries.
All this at your Lord.
And what of you?
The other day you were so ashamed to own that you were his disciple.
Are you not disgusted at such cowardice?
You were silent the other day when sinners were blaspheming him.
You were stingy when his poor people needed help.
You refused to give when his church and his cause knocked at your door.
You would not forgive a fellow Christian the other day and you parted company with one who had been your friend for years and all for a hot word.
And yet, you call yourself a Christian.
Yes, and I too am a Christian and have my own private cause for self humiliation.
And that is our master bleeding there.
How can we bear to look him in the face?
What sorry disciples we are.
Oh blessed master, let thy blood drop on us
until thou hast blotted out these many faults of ours and made us like thyself.
Amen and Amen.
Thank you for listening, friends.
This podcast was brought to you by Premier in association with Spurgeon's College.
For more Christian podcasts, sermons and music, head back to the website premier.plus and sign in for free.